docs: Add info on catalog applications image bundle (#4193)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.2/install/air-gapped/catalog/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Install Kommander in an air-gapped environment with catalog applications
title: Install Kommander in an air-gapped environment with catalog applications
menuWeight: 10
excerpt: Install Kommander in an air-gapped environment with catalog applications
beta: false
enterprise: true
---

This topic shows how to run Kommander on top of an [air-gapped Konvoy cluster][air-gap-konvoy] installation with catalog applications.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

-   A Docker registry containing all the necessary Docker images, including the Kommander and [DKP catalog application][dkp_catalog_applications] images.

-   A charts bundle file containing all Helm charts that Kommander installation needs, including the [DKP catalog applications][dkp_catalog_applications] charts.

> -   Connectivity with clusters attaching to the management cluster:

Reviewer: Do we need to mention this topic here somehow?

https://docs.d2iq.com/dkp/kommander/2.1/clusters/attach-cluster/cluster-with-network-restrictions/

Author: seems like a good idea! added in a09edf2b18c9e31f3c3be09e82f6a5002baf9fdb

>     - Both management and attached clusters must connect to the Docker registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Both management and attached clusters must be able to connect to the Docker registry.
```

Author: fixed a09edf2b18c9e31f3c3be09e82f6a5002baf9fdb!

>     - Management cluster must connect to the attached cluster's API server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The Management cluster must be able to connect to all attached cluster's API servers.
```

Author: fixed a09edf2b18c9e31f3c3be09e82f6a5002baf9fdb!

>     - Management cluster must connect to load balancers created by some platform services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The Management cluster must be able to connect to any load balancers created for platform services on the management cluster.
```

Author: fixed a09edf2b18c9e31f3c3be09e82f6a5002baf9fdb!

-   [MetalLB enabled and configured][air-gap-install-metallb], which provides load-balancing services.

### Kommander charts bundle

The charts bundle is a gzipped Tar archive containing Helm charts, which are required during Kommander installation.
Create the charts bundle with the Kommander CLI or downloaded along with the Kommander CLI.
Execute this command to create the charts bundle:

   ```bash
   kommander create chart-bundle
   ```

Kommander creates `charts-bundle.tar.gz`.
Optionally, specify the output using the `-o` parameter:

   ```bash
   kommander create chart-bundle -o [name of the output file]
   ```

### Kommander's internal Helm repository

The Kommander charts bundle is pushed to Kommander's internal Helm repository.
To inspect the contents:

   ```bash
   kommander get charts
   ```

Individual charts can be removed using:

   ```bash
   kommander delete chart [chartName] [chartVersion]
   ```

It is possible to push new charts as well:

   ```bash
   kommander push chart [chartTarball]
   ```

Or push a new bundle:

   ```bash
   kommander push chart-bundle [chartsTarball]
   ```

Check the built-in help text for each command for more information.

> ### Use MetalLB

Reviewer: I thought we were changing this in 2.2?   See https://jira.d2iq.com/browse/D2IQ-86454, etc.

Basically, because metal-lb *requires* per-cluster customization, and Kommander does not support that, metal-lb should not be a platform application; it should instead be deployed by Konvoy.  

I think we should remove or comment out this section for now while that ticket gets sorted out.

Author: This page is essentially a copy of the existing 2.2 installations instructions with the additional steps required for catalog applications (since that is an Enterprise only feature). I didn't actually change any of the install instructions, just added some additional steps. 

I'm not sure the status of that ticket/work but I would feel more comfortable leaving this here and let those changes happen when that ticket is worked if that's good with you.

Reviewer 2: @sonali-mishra-22 what do you think ?

Reviewer 3: I agree, we should handle removing or keeping metallb, in the bug ticket which is supposed to address that issue.

### Determine the installation version

Set the `VERSION` environment variable to the version of Kommander you want to install, for example:

```bash
export VERSION=v2.2.0
```

### Load the Docker images into your Docker registry

1.  Download the Kommander image bundle file:

    ```bash
    wget "https://downloads.mesosphere.com/kommander/airgapped/${VERSION}/kommander_image_bundle_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz" -O kommander-image-bundle.tar.gz
    ```

1.  Download the [DKP catalog applications][dkp_catalog_applications] image bundle file:

    ```bash
    wget "https://downloads.mesosphere.com/kommander/airgapped/${VERSION}/catalog_applications_image_bundle_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz" -O catalog-applications-image-bundle.tar.gz
    ```

1.  Place the bundles in a location where you can load and push the images to your private Docker registry.

1.  Run the following command to load the air-gapped image bundle into your private Docker registry:

    ```bash
    dkp push image-bundle --image-bundle kommander-image-bundle.tar.gz --to-registry <REGISTRY_URL>
    dkp push image-bundle --image-bundle catalog-applications-image-bundle.tar.gz --to-registry <REGISTRY_URL>
    ```

> Based on the network latency between the environment of script execution and the docker registry, this can take a while to push all the images to your image registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may take a while to push all the images to your image registry, depending on the performance of the network between the machine you are running the script on and the docker registry.
```

### Determine the installation version

Set the `VERSION` environment variable to the version of Kommander you want to install, for example:

```bash
export VERSION=v2.2.0
```

### Load the Docker images into your Docker registry

1.  Download the Kommander image bundle file:

    ```bash
    wget "https://downloads.mesosphere.com/kommander/airgapped/${VERSION}/kommander_image_bundle_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz" -O kommander-image-bundle.tar.gz
    ```

1.  Download the [DKP catalog applications][dkp_catalog_applications] image bundle file:

    ```bash
    wget "https://downloads.mesosphere.com/kommander/airgapped/${VERSION}/catalog_applications_image_bundle_${VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz" -O catalog-applications-image-bundle.tar.gz
    ```

1.  Place the bundles in a location where you can load and push the images to your private Docker registry.

1.  Run the following command to load the air-gapped image bundle into your private Docker registry:

    ```bash
    dkp push image-bundle --image-bundle kommander-image-bundle.tar.gz --to-registry <REGISTRY_URL>
    dkp push image-bundle --image-bundle catalog-applications-image-bundle.tar.gz --to-registry <REGISTRY_URL>
    ```

> It may take a while to push all the images to your image registry, depending on the performance of the network between the machine you are running the script on and the docker registry.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It may take a while to push all the images to your image registry, depending on the performance of the network between the machine you are running the script on and the Docker registry.
```
